---
title: Genesis. I Hate Writing!
date: "2019-01-04T16:51:00.000Z"
layout: post
draft: false
path: "/posts/genesis/"
category: "Life"
tags:
- "Writing"
- "College Life"
- "Personal Finance"
- "Engineering" 
- "Economics" 

description: "Why I decided to start a personal blog"
---
Welcome to my website! This is my first ever article and I wanted to start off explaining my reasons for starting this website. I guess you could say that this is a blog, although my motivation for writing may be different than many bloggers. I don’t write with the intention of becoming popular. I intend to write so that I can articulate my ideas and help myself (and anyone who reads it) along the path of self-directed learning. If along the way people decide that they find my writing interesting, Great! But if not I will still get the benefit that I am looking for. I plan on writing about various topics that I find interesting. Over the past few years I have found myself drawn to 2 main areas of interest, Finance/Economics and Engineering. I study Chemical Engineering formally at Brigham Young University and I explore finance and economics in my free time. I love these fields of study because their application can have a huge impact on people individually and society generally. In addition to writing about engineering and finance I plan to use this website as a kind of journal. I have never been very good about keeping a written journal, so I hope writing here can help me be motivated to record my experiences. College life has been really fun so far and I hope to capture some of my experiences here through writing. So here I am, writing a blog about Engineering, Finance, and College Life at BYU. Here is the story of why I wanted to start this. 

When I was a senior in high school I really got into learning about personal finance and business. I started reading books like The Richest Man in Babylon and Dave Ramsey’s Total Money Makeover. As I dove deeper and deeper into the personal finance thought space, I found some interesting ideas that were, I guess you could say, unconventional. Most notably I stumbled across a blogger named Mr. Money Mustache. If you haven’t heard of him before, he is part of the early retirement group called extreme savers. In his 20’s while working as a computer programmer he developed habits that allowed him to save a large majority of his income. After saving and investing over half his income for a period of 9 years, he was able to become financially independent and live off the income that his investments generated. 
After becoming financially independent he decided to write about his experiences along the way. I am sure it came as a surprise to him that his ideas would be very popular and would attract a large audience. One of those people was me. I read a lot of his articles having to do with wise money management and it made a lot of sense to me. As I was looking through his articles one day, I came across one about how he hosts his webpage. I thought to myself “wow that would be cool to have my own blogging website.” However this desire didn’t have any action behind it. As a 17-year-old junior in high school, I lacked discipline and motivation. I really was not experienced enough to come up with interesting things to write about and definitely not disciplined enough to write consistently. So I never started a website. To some degree I still feel like I don’t have anything meaningful to write about, but I am pressing forward to work on this project, despite by weaknesses. My thought is that as I do my own research and progress through college, the ideas for what to write about will come. As for the motivation to start writing, I owe that to my college writing teacher. 

Here at BYU there is a required course called Writing 150. Most students take the class early on during their freshman year, myself included. As any good university would do, the aim of certain classes is to educate us in the liberal arts. By liberal I don’t mean the political spectrum but the more traditional form of the word. A liberal subject being one that when studied liberates the mind and helps a person think for themselves. Writing is a way to communicate and express ideas and therefore helps to liberate the mind. Now keep in mind that I did not think this was the purpose of the class prior to taking it. When I started the class, I felt like it was another hoop to jump through before I could study what I really wanted, which is engineering. I had mixed feelings. Like most engineering students, I questioned the need to become better at writing, but my desire to write like Mr. Money Mustache was still inside of me. 

As part of the class we were all required to create an account on medium, a blog hosting website, and write one article per class period. (3 per week) As I started to write more consistently I began to enjoy it. I could research a topic and then write down my thoughts about it. I could explore whatever I felt like and actually write things I cared about. After those few short months of writing I decided that I wanted to keep up the habit after the semester was over. I considered continuing to write on medium and there were a few appealing reasons it may have been a good idea. Millions of people use the site, so it offers an established audience. The website is also simple and easy to use. Despite these benefits, I didn’t want to continue to pay 60 dollars a year to keep my subscription. I also wanted more flexibility in modifying the format and look of my blog. Because of these reasons, I chose to create my own website. 

I did not have any experience prior to this of creating a website, so I turned to my older brothers Ashton and Peter for help. Ashton and Peter are both computer programmers and they were able to help me with the initial setup of the website. It has been great to learn some of the basics behind how websites work. We used a website hosting service called netlify and then used github to store the code and make changes to the website. I downloaded a program called visual studio code which I am using as my text editor to input the blog entries. I am still getting a lot of the kinks worked out in the system, but I can start writing now and that is really the important thing.

It has been a fun experience so far and I hope that I can keep up the habit of writing with my busy school schedule demanding so much of my time. In summary, the main reasons that I have started this project is to 1) write down personal experiences as an alternative to keeping a journal 2) expand my skillset through independent study and then use the blog to summarize and elaborate on what I am learning 3) connect with likeminded individuals to talk about interesting topics. My focus will be on engineering and finance, but I don’t plan to be ridged and never deviate from these 2 topics. I will simply use those topics as a good foundation to build on. My strategy to keep myself accountable to the project is to write at least 30 minutes a day before I work on my other school work. Now as I am writing it is 7:00 am here in Utah and my daily writing session is coming to a close. I hope that this schedule will help me to be consistent in my writing and make small improvements as I learn more and more. I will write in a cycle starting with a post about my life in college, then a post about finance, and then a post about an engineering topic. Naturally these posts will take various amounts of time to finish. A post about college life will take less time than a post about finance; and a post about finance will take less time than a post about engineering. The goal is to average a post a week, but ultimately the learning along the way will be the real accomplishment. It you find yourself sticking around to read my writing, I hope you enjoy the journey with me. 

-Terrin
